Why this case study?


From company’s perspective:
● Netflix is one of the most popular media and video streaming platforms. They 
have over 8000 movies or tv shows available on their platform, as of mid-2021, 
they have over 200M Subscribers globally. 
● The particular business case focuses on the Netflix show data and provides 
insightful information on 8807 shows 
● Analyzing the data and generating insights helps Netflix decide which type of 
shows/movies to produce and how to grow the business.


From learner’s perspective:
● Solving this business case holds immense importance for aspiring data analysts and 
scientists. 
● Data analysis using Python libraries is widely popular among the Data Scientists and 
Data Analysts. By working through this case study, individuals gain hands-on 
experience and practical skills while attempting this case study.
● Additionally, it will enhance one's ability to communicate with the stakeholders 
involved in data-related projects and help the organization take better, data-driven 
decisions.


Dataset:
This tabular dataset consists of listings of all the movies and tv shows available on 
Netflix, along with details such as - cast, directors, ratings, release year, duration, etc.

Link : https://www.kaggle.com/shivamb/netflix-shows

The data is available in a single csv file : 
● Show ID : The ID of the show
● Type: Identifier - A Movie or TV Show
● Title: Title of the Movie / Tv Show
● Director: Director of the Movie
● Cast: Actors involved in the movie/show
● Country: Country where the movie/show was produced
● Date_added: Date it was added on Netflix
● Release_year: Actual Release year of the movie/show
● Rating: TV Rating of the movie/show
● Duration: Total Duration - in minutes or number of seasons
● Listed_in: Genre
● Description: The summary description


What is expected?
Assuming you are a data analyst/ scientist at Netflix, you have been assigned the task of 
analyzing the given dataset to extract valuable insights and provide actionable 
recommendations.
